.TH kube 1

.SH NAME
kube \- an optimal solver for the 3x3x3 Rubik's cube

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kube
[\fB\-v\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR \fINUM\fR]
[\fB\-M\fR \fIMAX\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR \fISTEP\fR]...
[\fB\-g\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kube
is an optimal solver for the 3x3x3 Rubik's cube.
It finds a shortest solution to the given scramble
in the half turn metric (HTM). The solving
algorithm is heavily inspired by Tomas Rokicki's
nxopt solver.

When multiple solving steps are specified,
.B kube
uses a beam search to find up to
\fINUM\fR solutions.

.PP
.B kube
reads scrambles from standard input using the format
specified by \fIFORMAT\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Produce verbose output. kube prints statistics about
the solving process.

.TP
.BR \-n " " \fINUM\fR ", " \-\-num=NUM
Try to find \fINUM\fR solutions. Default is 1.
When multiple solving steps are provided,
kube performs a beam search to find up to \fINUM\fR
solutions.

.TP
.BR \-M " " \fIMAX\fR ", " \-\-max-depth=MAX
Limit the search depth to \fIMAX\fR moves. Default is 1024.

.TP
.BR \-f " " \fIFORMAT\fR ", " \-\-format=FORMAT
Specify scramble format. Default is "singmaster".

Supported formats:

.RS
.TP
.B singmaster
Standard move notation (e.g., "R U R' F B2"). Writing e.g. R1, R2, R3 instead of R, R2, R' is also supported.

.TP
.B speffz
Blindfold memo using the Speffz letter scheme
from buffers UFR/UF. Corner memo first, then a ".",
followed by edge memo (e.g., "abuv.efnt").
.RE

.TP
.BR \-s " " \fISTEP\fR ", " \-\-step=STEP
Append a solving step. Steps are executed in the
order they are given. This option may be repeated.

Supported steps:
.RS
eo, dr, htr, fin
.RE

Example:
.RS
kube -s eo -s dr -s fin
.RE

.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-gen
Generate pruning tables. This must be done before
using the solver.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Find an optimal solution for the Ua-perm with verbose output:
.PP
.nf
.RS
.B
echo "R' U R' U' R' U' R' U R U R2" | kube -s fin -v
.RE
.fi

.PP
Find an optimal solution for an A-perm using Speffz format:
.PP
.nf
.RS
.B
echo "ab." | kube -s fin -f speffz
.RE
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
Oskar Feed Jakobsen (oskarfj@oskarfj.no)

.SH SOURCE CODE
Source code is available at:
.I https://github.com/kajrakso/kube

